[DX-936] Update getting-started-tyk-operator.md (#3846)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/product-stack/tyk-operator/tyk-ingress-controller.md

# Ingress

> Tyk Operator offers an Ingress Controller, which dynamically manages ApiDefinition resources as per the ingress spec.

Author: Tyk Operator is managing ApiDefinition resource (this is the name of our custom resource) according to user provided Ingress spec.

---
title: "Configure Tyk Operator as Ingress Controller "
tags: ["Tyk Operator", "Kubernetes", "Ingress", "Ingress Controller"]
description: "Configure Tyk Operator as Ingress Controller" 
---

> # Configure Tyk Operator as Ingress Controller

Reviewer: Remove duplicate H1 heading for SEO purposes. The title in the front matter will be rendered by Hugo during the build.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Tyk Operator offers an Ingress Controller, which dynamically manages ApiDefinition resources as per the ingress spec.
 Tyk Gateway can be configured as a drop-in replacement for a standard Kubernetes Ingress.

Most Ingress Controllers heavily rely on annotations to configure the ingress gateway. With Tyk Operator, our Ingress 
 Controller prefers to reference a strongly typed custom resource template.

## Motivation

The standard Ingress resource is very basic and does not natively support many advanced capabilities that are required

>  for API Management use-cases. Despite this, the community have built tooling, capabilities, dependencies,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 for API Management use-cases. Despite this, the community have built tooling, capabilities and dependencies
```

 on top of the ingress resource. These all rely on abuse of the metadata annotations. This practice is apparent 
 with the standard [Kubernetes NginX Ingress resource](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/annotations/#annotations).

In order to decouple, gain all the benefits of Kubernetes, offer a Native & consistent API, we introduced the Tyk

>  ApiDefinition custom resource, which brings Full-Lifecycle API Management capabilities to Kubernetes Ingress. A side effect of

Reviewer: Maybe add examples of API management capabilities that Tyk Ingress controller allows. Does this mean via the APIDefinition template feature that users can dynamically specify a template APIDefinition configuration for creation, securing APIs etc ingress paths that reference that API Definition template?

Author: ```suggestion
 ApiDefinition custom resource, which adds additional API Management capabilities, like security policy and rate limiting to Kubernetes Ingress. A side effect of
```

 this meant a potential trade-off between offering a K8s native experience & integrating with Ingress which would 
 facilitate clean integration with 3rd party tooling built on-top of and dependent on the Ingress Resource.

As a compromise & attempt to propose an alternative & more scalable solution, we have introduced the concept of the 
 ingress template ApiDefinition resource. The Template ApiDefinition resource offers a means to extend the capabilities 

>  of the standard Ingress Resource, by merging features of the ingress specification with that of the template.

Reviewer: Maybe add a final paragraph here to define what the APIDefinition represents with the example / sample. Does it create a default Tyk APIDefintion configuration for each ingress path that references the template?

Author: ```suggestion
 of the standard Ingress Resource, by merging features of the ingress specification with that of the template.
 
 The following sections shows some example of Tyk ApiDefinition template and Ingress specification.
```

based on ingress path and ApiDefinition template.

Here are some [Ingress Examples](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-operator/tree/master/config/samples/ingress) we provided on GitHub:
* [HTTP Host-Based](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-operator/blob/master/config/samples/ingress/ingress-httpbin/)
* [HTTP Path Based](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-operator/blob/master/config/samples/ingress/ingress-httpbin/)
* [HTTP Host and Path](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-operator/blob/master/config/samples/ingress/ingress-httpbin/)
* [HTTPS with Cert-Manager Integration](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-operator/blob/master/config/samples/ingress/ingress-tls)
* [Multiple Ingress Resources](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-operator/blob/master/config/samples/ingress/ingress-multi)
* [Wildcard Hosts](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-operator/blob/master/config/samples/ingress/ingress-wildcard-host)
* [Istio Ingress Gateway](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-operator/blob/master/config/samples/ingress/istio-ingress-bookinfo)

### Ingress Class

> The value of the `kubernetes.io/ingress.class` annotation that identifies Ingress objects to be processed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ingress class represents the value of the `kubernetes.io/ingress.class` annotation that identifies Ingress objects to be processed.
```

Author: ```suggestion
The value of the `kubernetes.io/ingress.class` annotation identifies the IngressClass that will process Ingress objects.
```

spec:
 rules:
  - http:
     paths:
      - path: /httpbin
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
         service:
          name: httpbin
          port:
           number: 8000
```

Tyk Ingress Controller will create APIs in Tyk for each path defined for a specific rule in Ingress resource. Each API 
created inside Tyk will follow a special naming convention as follows:
```
<ingress_namespace>-<ingress_name>-<hash(Host + Path)>
```

The above ingress resource will create an ApiDefinition called `default-httpbin-ingress-78acd160d` inside Tyk's Gateway.
ApiDefinition's name comes from:
- `default`: The namespace of this Ingress resource,
- `httpbin-ingress`: The name of this Ingress resource,
- `78acd160d`: Short hash (first 9 characters) of Host (`""`) and Path (`/httpbin`). The hash algorithm is SHA256.

The ApiDefinition will offer path-based routing listening on `/httpbin`. Because the referenced template is `myapideftemplate`, the IngressReconciler will retrieve the `myapideftemplate` resource and determine that the ApiDefinition object it creates needs to have standard auth enabled.

> ## Sample HTTPS Ingress resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sample HTTPS Ingress resource
```

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: httpbin-ingress-tls
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: tyk # <----------------- REFERENCES TYK INGRESS CONTROLLER
    tyk.io/template: myapideftemplate # <---------------- REFERENCE TO APIDEFINITION IN SAME NAMESPACE
    cert-manager.io/cluster-issuer: "letsencrypt-prod"
    acme.cert-manager.io/http01-edit-in-place: "true"
spec:
  tls:
    - hosts:
        - myingress.do.poc.tyk.technology
      secretName: httpbin-ingress-tls
  rules:
    - host: myingress.do.poc.tyk.technology
      http:
        paths:
          - path: /httpbin
            pathType: Prefix
            backend:
              service:
                name: httpbin
                port:
                  number: 8000
```

Assuming you already have a `letsencrypt-prod` cluster issuer, it is possible to automatically provision TLS certificates
 issued by LetsEncrypt.

```yaml
metadata:
  annotations:
    cert-manager.io/cluster-issuer: "letsencrypt-prod"
    acme.cert-manager.io/http01-edit-in-place: "true"
```

> Tyk ingress controller can then handle the acme challenge where cert-manager edits the ingress resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tyk ingress controller can then handle the acme challenge when cert-manager edits the ingress resource.
```

## Ingress Path Types

> Each path in an Ingress must have its own particular path type. Kubernetes offers three types of path types: `ImplementationSpecific`, `Exact`, and `Prefix`. Currently, not all path types are supported. The below table shows the unsupported path types for [Sample HTTP Ingress Resource](#sample-http-ingress-resource) based on the examples in the [Kubernetes Ingress documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#examples).

Reviewer: Maybe add an external link to K8s documentation for external path types here. Is #sample-http-ingress-resource a new content file?

Author: #sample-http-ingress-resource links to the "Sample HTTP Ingress Resource" section on same page
